Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, we're talking about Inheritance.
And if this scares you because it looks a bit advanced,
don't worry.
Inheritance is pretty easy to grasp,
at least on some level,
when we're gonna be talking about more advanced stuff
as we move on through the course.
Imagine you've got this student class,
something very similar to what we've defined before,
it's got an init method that takes in a name and a school
and assigns them to two properties
and it also creates a marks property,
which is an empty list.
Then it also has an average function method.
I always wanna call them functions,
an average method that returns
the average of self.marks.
Now, imagine you want to add some more functionality
to another class which may be a working student class.
A working student is exactly the same as a student
but it has a salary as well.
Let's do that.
(keyboard clacks)
Here's our working student class
and it has an init method too.
Whereas it takes a name, a school and a salary.
Now, same as above, would you rather have
self.name equals name, self.school equals school,
self.marks equals empty list, and now a new line,
self.salary equals salary.
Whenever you are writing stuff like this
that is exact copy of something you have above,
you must know that something is wrong.
Something can be made better.
Particularly in Python, where duplication
is not really that common.
There are always way to make your code,
There are always ways to make your code less duplicate.
We also have to define, of course, this average...
method where it's gonna return everything as we know it
like so.
Now, if we create a working student and student,
Rolf, that goes to MIT, and has a salary of 15.50,
we can, of course, print out rolf.salary
and that's gonna give us the salary property, 15.5.
Notice how Python drops the last zero because it's a zero
and that's fine.
So again, nothing new is going on here,
working student has created the new blank object,
let's put it into self.
Rolf MIT and 15.50 have gone into name, school, and salary
respectively, then we've created four properties:
self.name, self.school, self.marks and self.salary,
and we've given it some values: name, school and salary,
these are the parameters, and empty list for marks
to be initialised with.
If we wanted to add some marks,
we would have to do rolf.marks.append(56), for example.
And then, we could calculate the average of those marks.
So you can see, there's a lot of jublication
between our student, which has a name, school and marks
and an average function, and our working student,
which is exactly the same,
but the only thing we've added is the salary.
So, we could use Inheritance in order to remove jublication.
Here's how it's gonna go.
I'm going to reimplement the working student class
using Inheritance to reduce duplication,
and then we're gonna talk about what's going on.
So, we've got our class working student
and we want to make it extend the student class.
What that's gonna mean is the working student's class
is going to become an exact copy of student
but we're going to be able to modify particular methods
if we want.
The way you do that is you add some brackets at the end
and you type in Student.
Now, working student is a class that is a child of student.
It extends student.
So, we can delete the average method.
(instructor whistles)
Completely gone,
but working student still has an average method.
Only it's not there,
it is now directly inherited from student.
Exactly the same, imagine it's a copy and paste.
Nothing's changed.
So, what about the init method then?
We've got name and a school, which are just copies of them.
Can't we just delete them and just keep the salary?
This would be great, I'll be honest.
It would be great if we could do this, but sadly, no
because when working student is now called,
the same thing happens as before.
An empty, blank object is created given to self,
and now salary is rolf.
MIT and 15.50 don't have any matching arguments
so we get an error, too many positional arguments
for constructor call.
So no, you cannot do that unfortunately.
But what you can do
is now that you have this empty object here,
you can call the student's init method
and make it go through this initialization
of self.name, self.school and self.marks.
And the way you do that is a mildly confusing way.
You say super.
Super is the parent class, in this case, student.
And you can then, this is the only time
when you are gonna call the init method manually.
You're gonna say super, which is the parent class,
student. dunder init, open and closed brackets,
and in here, you're gonna put the name and the school.
So what is happening then is you are just jumping over
to this init method and self is stealing the current object
that you're dealing with.
That's rolf, there's working student.
So now, here, you call the parent's classing it's method,
that initialises name, school, and marks.
Then, you can back down here, and you initialise salary.
And this is a much more concise way
of writing your working student class
that is just an extension of the student class.
It just adds a new property to it.
Notice how you can print Rolf's salary,
but you can also do rolf.marks, marks.append(57),
rolf.marks.append(99),
and you can print the average there.
Then you can run it and 78.0 comes out,
that's totally good because that means
that our working student has this salary,
this average function, method defined in here
and that's all good.
It's just inherited it from the student class
as opposed to having to define it.
That's the basis of inheritance.
And the way to extend the class
is now you can define something else like weekly salary.
And this is gonna return self.salary times 37.5.
Thus the normal working hours in the UK, 37.5 hours,
so now, you can print rolf.weekly_salary,
and that's gonna give you Rolf's salary times 37.5.
Important if you create...
I'm gonna add a few lines there
so it's a bit easier to read,
if you create Anna being a normal student
at Oxford, notice how she doesn't take a salary
because the student constructor is still up here,
this class is still totally valid,
it doesn't stop being useful,
doesn't take a salary, doesn't have a salary property.
So, now, if you do anna.weekly_salary,
this is gonna give you an error
and it's gonna say the student object
has no attribute weekly salary.
This function here is not defined for student.
It's only defined in working student.
This goes from top to bottom.
Working student gets stuff from student
but not the other way around.
Student does not get anything from working student, okay?
Important thing to remember.
That's it for this video, now in the next video,
we're going to look at the property decorator.
We're not gonna talk about what decorators are,
but what we're gonna talk about is the fact
that we've got this weekly salary thing here
and it's a function that takes no arguments
other than self.
So, there's some simplification we can do here.
Let's talk about it in the very next video.